---
title: "Visualized Spotify's Weekly Global Top 200 Songs From June-September 2019 and Then Analyzed Worldwide Streaming Activity and Track Popularity"

date: 2019-09-06

datatags: [music data, labeled data]
technologytags: [tableau]
techniquetags: []

categories: [Visualize Data]
header:
  <!-- image: "/images/boston-housing-data_files/house-header.jpg" -->
excerpt: "Global Top 200 Songs..."
mathjax: "true"
classes: wide #expand the page
---
{% include toc icon="book-open" title="Table of Contents" %}<br/>

<https://www.techbeamers.com/pandas-merge-csv-files/>

## Project Description
Downloaded 12 weeks of Global Top 200 Spotify songs as csv files and visualized data with a Tableau dashboard. The data sheds some light on the listening habits of the entire world. It answers questions such as What are the most popular summer tracks of 2019? Who is the most popular artist in the world based on streaming time? Who are the rising stars climbing the Top 200 Ladder? And Who is the artist that collaborates the most?

In this project I am using Tableau Public and follow the guide "How to visualize Spotify music trends in Tableau" by Scott Teal of the Tableau team.

After merging the 12 CSV files within Python, I open up my Tableau and go to **"Text File"** and select my CSV file labeled *Spotify__Weekly__Streaming.csv*.  Under **Files**, I'm so happy that all the CSV files are there. The Column names are "Unnamed" as it looks like the title names did not carry over. I label them as such

***insert column change photo here***

## Most Popular Tracks and Artists
We click **Sheet 1** at the bottom of the left of Tableau and drag **Track Name** in the columns field. This shows each time a track from the artist showed up on the Top 200 list which is helpful to see how many of the artists' songs ended up on the list over the summer.

1. Once we drag **Track Name** into columns, change the *Measure* option to *Count (Distinct)*. We'll see that there are 390 tracks.
2. Then we drag **Artist** into rows and sort them by highest to lowest. We'll see which top 3 artists have the most tracks. Ordered by highest tracks. It looks like Ed Sheeran, Billie Eillish, and Shawn Mendes.
3. Now we drag **Streams** into columns. Teal, the author of the original post, makes a point that although there can be more tracks of the artist on the list it doesn't mean that the author had the most stream time. According to Spotify, a stream is counted when a user listens for over 30 seconds. If we sort the columns by stream, we can see that the top 3 most streamed artists are Ed Sheeran, Billie Eilish and Shawn Mendes. Taylor Swift gets bumped down to 6th place in terms of how long people listened to her for.

***INSERT most pop artist and streams here***

4. To a different view of the relationship between **Streams** and **Track Name**, we can look at a scatter plot. Go to **Show Me** in the top corner and select the *scatter plots* option. We'll see that Ed Sheeran blows everyone out of the water in terms of number of tracks and stream time. I don't blame this guy, his music is so catchy. We can see the majority of tracks have between 0-200 Million streams with 1-3 tracks.

***INSERT SHAWN MENDES STREAM VS ARTIST HERE***

Now let's look at the popularity of the tracks.

1. We drag **Songs**
